Today we are joined with Dr. Thomas
Seaff Freed. Um Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed,
would would you like to go ahead and
introduce yourself?
>> Yeah. Hi Jason, nice to be here. Uh
Professor Seaffrey Thomas from Boston
College and um we are doing metabolic
therapy for managing cancer and I teach
cancer metabolism here to advanced
students as well as uh in our general
biology uh program. And we emphasize um
scientific literacy. It's very important
for people to understand uh science. And
um we find it very uh interesting that
the world is run by uh science and
technology and very few people
understand anything about science and
technology. So uh it also helps to try
to educate yourself. So cancer patients
in this in this particular sphere are
better able to understand their disease
and recognize um logical therapeutic
strategies that might be uh appropriate
for their condition. So um feel free to
ask me any questions that you might have
related to the the cancer problem.
So your main focus of study is metabolic
therapy. And so a lot of people when
they hear the words metabolic therapy,
they don't exactly know what that is or
how it works. If you could just talk
about metabolic therapy, that's been
your big bread winner over the years and
shown a lot of promise or just success
in the lab. Pure success.
>> Yeah. Well, a success in the lab as well
as success in the clinic as well. Um
what has what has we we we and others
have come to know is that cancer is
essentially a metabolic problem. Um and
and uh we energy is the central issue
for everything. Um a cell cannot grow
without energy. Uh so cancer cells are
growing in a disregulated way and that's
the definition of cancer disregulated
cell growth. So you have to say to
yourself, well, where's the energy
coming from uh for these cells to grow
in a disregulated way? Because without
energy,
nothing can grow anyway. So um so the
field is seems to be [clears throat]
focused heavily on mutations.
Excuse me. But um with the promise that
precision medicine and this
[clears throat] kind of thing uh will
eventually replace the need for toxic
chemicals, chemotherapy and radiation.
If we can look at mutations in cancer
cells and target those mutations called
precision medicine or personalized
therapy or these kinds of things, um we
can then maybe make advances. Um well
that that strategy is based on the
sematic mutation theory of cancer which
is the driver uh the driving theory for
all of the major cancer centers
throughout the world. The National
Cancer Institute here in the United
States and wherever else Canadian cancer
institutes and English, German, France,
they're all of the opinion
[clears throat]
that cancer is a genetic disease and
personalized medicine is going to be the
future. The the important issue here is
that that's incorrect.
uh that theory is now debunked massively
by information that's in in the
literature that people uh do not uh or
do not ignore basically. So we have
found and others have found based on the
work of Otto Warberg and others that no
cancer cell can grow uh without energy
through fermentation uh rather than
through oxidative phosphorilation. We're
all breathing. We get energy from
oxidative phosphorilation because we use
oxygen to keep the cells alive making
energy. But cancer cells don't they take
in oxygen. The problem is they don't use
it for making energy. They they rely on
these ancient fermentation pathways
where they use glucose and the and the
amino acid glutamine. And these two
fuels are uh used in the absence of
oxygen. Even even if oxygen is present,
they're still being fermented. That's a
a pathway that does not involve oxygen.
So we have discovered this and people
all know that glucose and glutamine are
essential for tumor growth. The problem
the problem is that they all feel that
glucose and glutamine are respired uh
not fermented. And the this is the big
conundrum. How do these fuels produce
energy? Is it through uh respiration
with oxygen or is it fermentation?
Ancient pathways. Once you realize
they're ancient pathways, then you know
how to kill them. you just take away
glucose and glutamine while
transitioning the body over to
nutritional ketosis because the tumor
cells can't burn ketones. Why? Because
their oxidative phosphorilation system
is defective. So once people understand
that cancer cells don't need oxygen to
grow, they ferment and they only ferment
glucose and glutamine. Then we know how
to kill them. And when you do it, it
works really well. Uh the problem is
very few people understand this or
accept it because they haven't read the
scientific literature number one or they
choose to ignore it uh at at at
the the demise of the cancer patients.
So um yeah I I know and people say well
I don't understand what you're saying.
Well I'm saying I published all this
it's open access literature and I as I
said um scientific literacy is
essential. You you want to know what I'm
saying? You better be scientific
literatur literate. And if you're not
scientific literate, you be better get
on the bandwagon real quick and start
understanding what the hell I'm saying
because it's published out there. And I
try to write it in such and I'm sorry if
it's a little bit too deep for some
people, but listen, your life is on the
line. Many of these cancer patients and
I'm always amazed. You'd be a surprise
when your life is on the line how smart
you become in a relatively short period
of time. It's unbelievable. I wish my
students sometimes would would would get
on the on the bandwagon as fast as some
of these cancer patients. I've had some
cancer patients, they never graduated uh
they graduated from high school, nothing
further, and they're able to understand
some of these concepts because they work
hard at trying to understand them. And
the next thing you know, when they
understand it, now they know what to do
and how to do what they're trying to do
to kill cancer cells. The problem is the
biggest block right now is the systems.
As I said, the National Cancer
Institutes of all the major hospitals
and uh government institutions still
think cancer is a genetic disease
thereby imunotherapy
that you a lot of people are taking
based on the sematic mutation theory of
cancer. It's it's not a meta you can
target the glucose and glutamine and get
a very similar result if not better. So,
so again it all comes down to the theory
under which the approaches the
procedures are being used. So again you
have to understand the difference
between the sematic mutation theory and
the mitochondrial metabolic theory. And
we've published a number of papers in
this area so people can get an
understanding. Why are you not treating
me with metabolic therapy based on the
true understanding of what the disease
is? Why are you continuing to treat me
with therapies based on the sematic
mutation which has now been undermined
and debunked? And most people
in the clinics would if you were to a
cancer patient would say that to an
oncologist,
the oncologist would look at you like a
deer in a headlight. He would have no
clue about what you're talking about.
And this is the tragedy because neither
the patient nor the caregiver really
understand the nature of what cancer is.
So once you understand what it's a
metabolic disorder, then the both the
patient and the oncologist can work
together as a team and manage the cancer
effectively without toxicity.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rocker. Within
this new community platform, you can
connect with other patients and learn
from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford. We will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols. So, take a look around
at school.com/keto
for cancer.
>> How long will it take for this to
happen? I have no idea.
>> Hopefully sooner than later.
>> Yeah, let's hope so.
Um, so if I could re reiterate what
you're saying, the way that when you're
talking about all this stuff, I see it
in my head is because this all was
originally discovered by Otto Warberg,
um, that cancer cell will continue to
grow even in the presence of oxygen,
glycolysis occurs. So the way I see it,
it's like trying to brew a big barrel of
wine and you put all the wine in, but
normally with wine, you got to seal the
lid to keep the the air out after you
put in the sugar. You put in the sugar,
seal the wine to keep out the oxygen,
and it makes wine. But in this case, you
don't even need to bother throwing the
top of
>> Well, well, let's let's let's let's go
back on that wine thing. You you can put
the water and the grapes and the sugar.
Actually, you don't put much sugar in
there. The wine the grapes have the
sugar already in there. So, so but you
need an organism uh to produce uh uh to
to to create the to put the sugar back
to alcohol and let the and let the wine
age and that's yeast. So the yeast uh
take the sugar from the grapes and they
it's called alcoholic fermentation. All
right? That's called alcoholic
fermentation. So the yeast produces the
alcohol using the sugar from the grapes
and then you uh age them in these
barrels and you get you get the wine.
The difference between making uh wine
and the growing cancer is that the it is
a fermentation process but in cancer
it's called lactic acid [clears throat]
fermentation rather than alcoholic
fermentation. So the cancer cell will
take the sugar and convert it into
lactic acid and and the and the and the
building blocks to grow the tumor cell.
So and the waste the waste product in
wine uh is alcohol. That's that's uh the
waste product in cancer is lactic acid.
Okay. So lactic acid is now dumped
outside of the cancer cell creating an
an acidified inflamed micro environment.
And that inflamed micro environment also
prevents many chemotherapies and
imunotherapies from working because the
waste product of the tumor is blocking
some of these other therapies from
working themselves. So how do you stop
lact where's the lactic acid coming
from? It's coming from the sugar in the
bloodstream. Okay. So and the amino acid
glutamine they produce suinic acid. So
the acids dumped out of cancer cells are
the waste products of the fermentable
fuels driving the disregulated cell
growth. So if you want to stop cancer,
you have to stop the fuels that are
producing the acids. And that's the
glucose and the glutamine. And you use a
a combination of diets and drugs that
simultaneously shut down the fermentable
fuels, which are glucose and glutamine.
And that reduces the acidification in
the micro environment, allowing a
multitude of different therapies to now
work and kill the tumor cells. So right
now, we're not doing any of that. And
that creates a big problem because the
waste products are blocking other
therapies from working and also allowing
the cancer cell to continue to grow and
produce more acid. So, so it's an
escalating situation of biological chaos
and we've created a monster by some of
the therapies that we that we try to do.
We do surgical mutilation. That's okay
and cancer as long as they haven't
spread outside the local localized area
because they'll come back at you. And
some of these tumor cells are already
seeding throughout the body and and a
lot of the therapies create systemic
inflammation making them grow even more.
So a lot of the things that we're doing
to manage cancer are based on a l
foundational lack of knowledge. And one
would never do this if they really
understood the the real biology of the
problem they're working with. It's
unbelievable, isn't it? Think about that
for a minute. What I'm saying,
>> very unbelievable. Like when you go in
to see your oncologist, they don't talk
about any of this stuff. They just give
you an insure and everybody gets an
insur and they walk around with a
cookie. When I was at getting immune
therapy last week, they walked around
with chocolates, those little sea ones
that are delicious.
>> Well, we we and others have published
many many papers showing that the
there's a direct correlation between how
fast the tumor will grow and how high
your blood sugar is. So, insure will
certainly elevate the blood sugar and uh
rescue uh tumor cells from death. So um
uh and thus allowing them at some point
in the future to grow in a more
aggressive way. So if you want your
tumor to survive and grow faster, you
have to elevate your blood sugar as high
as you can get it. So um and apparently
uh this is what's happening to a lot of
people and they become surprised that
the tumor is growing or where did it
come from? How come it came back? I
thought it was under control. All of a
sudden it recurs. Well, how could it
recur when I was drinking all this and
sure and eating all these candies? Um,
and that's because that's the gasoline
for the fire and and what you're doing
is just doing that. There's many many
papers in the literature both for all
major cancers. The higher the blood
sugar you get for that person that has
that cancer, the faster that tumor will
grow. So, how is it possible that some
everybody knows?
I think most people would understand
that if they had a a a fire in their
backyard with leaves or wood burning
things up, I think most people would
know that if I threw lighter fluid on
that fire, the flames would get bigger.
Um uh there's two reasons for that.
Number one, you have oxygen there. And
number and number two, you have an
accelerant. Okay? So in cancer they they
have the accelerant uh doesn't need
oxygen. This is the most amazing thing.
The cancer cell does not use the oxygen
like normal cells do but the accelerant
would be the fermentable fuels. um and
uh and and and so you don't want to put
accelerant you don't want to give more
fermentable fuels to the cancer cell and
uh insuring chocolates and things like
this like you mentioned are accelerants
and um people should know that and uh
you should avoid it I think get the you
want to get those accelerants to the
lowest level and that's why you have the
glucose ketone index because what's
happening there is that it measures
blood sugar lower the lower you get your
sugar and the higher you get your
ketones which are a non-fermentable
fuel. So that's an alternative to
glucose and glutamine. These ketones
cannot be fermented. So your normal
cells start burning the normal the
ketones. The tumor cells can't burn the
ketones because they have a defective
respir respiratory mechanism. Their
mitochondri don't uh don't effectively
get energy. So yeah, you have to
transition the body to a non-fermentable
fuel while sim simultane simultaneously
targeting uh the two fermentable fuels
and then you'll have uh you'll take
control you you'll have a control over
uh the disregulated cell growth which is
ultimately what cancer is.
>> You mentioned lacta lactic acid.
>> Um would working out and adding
additional lactic acid to the body also
be harmful or no? It's just the lactic
acid being produced by the cancer cell
itself. That's the issue.
>> Yeah. Well, that's that goes back to a
very important biochemical phenomena
called the Corey cycle. So Saul and
Gertie Corey received the Nobel Prize
for their discovery of the um Corey
cycle. Now, and here's the way that
works. So when you do really vigorous
exercises your muscles consume the
oxygen to the muscles is not capable of
generating uh sufficient energy for the
contraction of the muscles. So the
muscles have stored sugar called
glycogen in the muscle and that's being
burned faster than the oxygen can be
used to respire the glycogen. So the
glycogen forms lactic acid and the
lactic acid coming out of the muscles
from super exercise muscles goes back
into the bloodstream and and the liver
picks up the lactic acid and converts it
into glucose. So two lactic acid
molecules are made into a glucose
molecule which then comes back to the
muscle to restore the glycogen reserves
in the muscle. That's called the Corey
cycle. So if you were to uh give a large
amount of lactic acid to a cancer
patient, what would happen is that the
lactic acid would go to the liver and
the liver would convert the lactic acid
into glucose thereby feeding the cancer.
So uh you don't want to do that. You you
don't want to give a cancer patient a
large amount of lactic acid. As a as a
matter of fact, the cancer cell is
throwing out the lactate, going back
into the bloodstream, being converted to
glucose, and coming back to the cancer
cell. So again, it's it's a Corey cycle
uh feeding the cancer cells. So no, the
answer is that's not what you would want
to do uh is give and you can see that if
you dra if cancer patients were to drink
lactic acid or lactate, uh you would
elevate blood sugar and that would be
counterproductive to the success of what
you're trying to do.
Okay. So, one of the ways to reduce
glutamine in the system is to delay
exercise while fasting. So, if you're
fasting, you're not uptaking glucose.
But if you're doing mild exercise, that
reduces glutamine, too, right?
>> Yeah. Okay. So, glutamine needs drugs.
Uh yes, you if you do vigorous exercise,
you can lower glutamine. If you do a lot
of exercise without eating, you can
lower both glucose and glutamine. So
this is the way we evolved as as in the
paleolithic ancestry of our existence on
the planet. Uh we all emerged as hunter
gatherers for uh you know three to
500,000 years. We were had a lot of
exercise and minimal and the foods that
we ate were extremely low glycemic kinds
of foods. So so uh uh we would have low
glucose and we would have low glutamine.
for cancer that certainly helps exercise
um and restricted restricted consumption
of carbohydrates or highly processed
carbohydrates. Uh but the glutamine is
still there and you don't the cancer
cell doesn't need a lot of glutamine. Uh
glucose is the bigger consumed fuel but
they need that glutamine uh to build DNA
and RNA and this kind of thing. So um
that's why we need drugs that will
target the glutamine availability and uh
that works together with the diet and
exercise. So it's called a um a
metabolic therapy cocktail and that
cocktail is a combination of glutamine
targeting drugs together with um
therapeutic ketosis and exercise. A and
that seems to be the best course of
action uh for the successful management
of cancer while at the same time
enhancing enhancing and improving the
health and vitality of the normal cells
of the body all based on foundational
bioenergetic principles of energy
metabolism.
>> What kind of so basically a ketogenic
diet but what kind of ketogenic diet
seems to work the best like a carnivore
diet, a Mediterranean diet, just a
ketogenic diet? what what seems to get
the best results
>> any diet that will that will facilitate
the lowering of the glucose ketone index
and and it's also you have to have
cultural and religious implications on
this as well. So um and as I said I I
don't know uh what diet is works best.
Every individual would have to determine
that for themselves. If you're a vegan
or a car or a a vegetarian, you would
have to eat your diet uh and and adjust
the con composition or the content of
what you're eating to see how well it
brings you into a low GKI. And same if
you're a carnivore or pescatarian or
Mediterranean, I don't care what it is.
Uh each person would have to determine
what they like to eat, how much they can
eat to keep and maintain a low a GKI of
2.0 or below. So, it's it's an
individual thing. It can't be it can't
it can't be uh adjusted for the whole
population of people. Everybody is their
own unique person. So uh again uh that
person would have to determine what diet
works best for them and keeping a low
glucose ketone index GKI.
>> Now everybody that's been diagnosed with
cancer is extremely stressed and living
in tons of anxiety. Yeah.
>> Um well most people at least the people
that are taking treatments and trying to
fight and keep going forward. Um it's
just overwhelming. It's the worst
depression you'll ever have in your
life. So, what effect does stress and
depression have on cancer?
>> Yeah, huge. Huge. So, when we published
our um um press pulse strategy, uh it it
also incorporates uh stress management
as a component in the um
reduction of of disregulated cell
growth. Here's the situation.
Just like you you you mentioned um Jason
the stress what does stress do to the
body? Stress elevates gluccocorticoids.
When we're under stress we elevate
[clears throat] corticoids in
preparation for dealing with stress and
uh gluccocorticoids elevate blood sugar
in preparation for dealing with the
stress. So that itself will contribute
to the uh disregulated growth of the
tumor cell. Um so we have to have uh
strategies for stress management whether
[clears throat] that uh is music
therapy, massage therapy, acupuncture
therapy, prayer, what whatever it is, it
all has to work together to help to make
sure the GKI is low because
uh we have exa exact examples of this.
Um I worked with a person one time with
a a type of brain cancer. Um,
unfortunately that person was lost
because we weren't targeting glutamine,
but we were looking at glucose and she
was handicapped from her brain tumor and
someone pulled into and took her
handicapped u slot and and made her very
very angry and she measured her blood
sugar and it went skyrocketing. Um, but
I said to her, "What is what is your
ketone level?" And she said, "Oh, it's
still pretty high." So what we did was
we divided the glucose by the ketones
and we were able to show that the spike
was not not so drastic as what would
have been thought had you looked at
glucose by itself. And that singular
observation from that one person allowed
us to develop the the formula for the
glucose ketone index because it reduces
the stress. Um knowing that glucose,
yes, is an essential metabolite for
driving disregulated cancer growth. But
at the same time, ketones suppress that
and and that burst of uh uh of glucose
coming from the arise of the
gluccocorticoids due to the anger and
stress um is less less toxic or less
less stressful to know. So that's a way
to reduce your anxiety uh by just
looking at GKI values and saying, "Oh,
it wasn't that bad. Okay, now let me get
back to a more normal condition." So
once I think I think some of the stress
uh comes from your lack the lack of
knowledge of what you're dealing with um
once you have a better appreciation and
understanding of what cancer is and how
it grows then you can take action on
yourself to re to know that when I see
my GKI going down I am I am becoming
successful in managing my cancer.
Therefore, you become in charge of your
own existence. And when you know what
you need to do and how to do it, stress
less levels of stress go down because
now you understand things. But when
you're completely ignorant or lack of
knowledge about anything, then you get
all freaked out and your stress level
goes up because you have no clue what's
going on. So once you have the
understand the knowledge, then you are
in control and you can lower stress and
you can do things that will lower stress
knowing that it'll be killing tumor
cells and therefore you become
empowered. So this is an unbelievable
way to re to re-evaluate uh uh your
whole existence uh knowing that you are
in control or you can do things to uh
help manage uh the problem that you
have. It's a it's all based on
bioenergetics uh the laws these are are
fundamental laws of nature and uh and
they're they're steeped in evolutionary
biology. So this is why I say we
understand cancer because we understand
evolutionary biology and what's causing
the disregulated cell growth and
therefore we become empowered.
>> In Canada [clears throat] it's legal for
end of life cancer patients now if you
get approved by health Canada to use
psilocybin magic mushrooms um for end of
life treatment and that was based on
many studies done at John Hopkins
University and all kinds of places. Um,
I actually was approved to do it and I
did it with a doctor and a psych
psychiatrist on each side of me. And so
they had like three meetings ahead of
time. I had the 4hour journey using
psilocybin and then I had two exit
interviews where they helped me
integrate everything that I had learned
and seen on the journey and talk to God.
And it it actually relieved 80% of my
stress and fear of my own mortality and
death and having the cancer. really made
a substantial impact on my depression
and anxiety on the whole cancer
situation as a whole. It would just
really worked miracles. So, it's really
I guess that kind of backs up. There was
a study done apparently I heard about it
on a podcast recently in Canada. I was
on Joe Rogan, but apparently there were
68 end of life cancer patients that had
six months to live kind of like me. and
they they all did this psilocybin
journey through Health Canada and
[snorts] it's now been three years and
only four of them have passed away. So
the stress may have a huge role to play
in.
>> Yeah. Well, you should also check and
see what that's doing to the glucose
ketone index. See if the psilocyin
activity you have to do you have to
measure before and after or during and
see where see whether or not it's also
helping your GKI stay low. Um so
everything has to be measured by the
bioenergetic availability of the fuels
driving the disregulated cell growth and
anything you can do to lower those fuels
uh will delay the inevitable. So if
you're supposed to die in six months a
kinds of predictions that they give
people like they like they're God and
they know exactly what's going to happen
on Tuesday of May 4th or what in the
second Tuesday in May you're going to be
dead. I mean, how does anybody know
something like that? You know, they come
out and and you know, um uh but again,
uh whether you do mushrooms or whatever
else you do, prayer, uh or whatever,
always double check to see what effect
it's having on your glucose ketone
index. If it's keeping it stable and
low, then continue to do that. And if
you note it's getting lower. I mean,
this is you're trying to link these
things
uh with a with a quantitative
bioenergetic marker to see whether or
not you have these kinds of linkages.
And if you're already approved to do
these things, then you should measure
your GKI before, during, and after to
see whether or not you can actually get
a bioenergetic readout for uh uh the
whatever whatever supplement you're
taking, whatever you're doing to to help
manage your disorder. And then after a
while you see, wow, I've been doing it
now far longer than why I'm still doing
this. It it was like um the guy um Emma
was in the New York Times. The the Greek
the Greek guy who uh developed lung
cancer um and
>> uh yeah, his name was um Amoditis Mor
Moratus Morales. It's uh back I think I
know it was in the 1960s. He he was
diagnosed at I think Sloanketing with um
terminal lung cancer and they wanted him
to take all these things. He said no. He
went back to his his home in where he
grew up in some small island in the in
the Mediterranean, one of those Greek
islands. And he he wanted to die
peacefully in his village and and he was
given six months or something to live.
And he was there and he can ate his
natural Mediterranean diet, drank the
red wine, hung out with his friends, and
you know, six months went by and then
eight months and a year and and he
didn't die. And um he after 25 years he
he he went back to Sloan Kettering to
talk to the guys that gave him the
terminal diagnosis. And it turned out
both of the doctors were dead. One guy
died of a heart attack, the other guy
died of cancer or something. And and and
the idea here is that he returned to a a
diet with low stress, uh highly
nutritious foods, consumed in minimal
amounts, red wine, which we know doesn't
spike the glucose ketone index, and uh
he lived a a stress-free, highly organic
lifestyle. And lo and behold, now I'm
not saying that would happen to
everybody, but it certainly is an is is
evidence that you can get a turnaround
in these diseases if you bring your body
back into a new state uh of
physiological performance. So, and
there's a there's bioenerogenic rules
that explain this um and and you can
link them to bio this is what we're
doing. We're linking some of these
things to observable biomarkers to know
whether or not things are working. So uh
again because cancer is a metabolic
disorder. It's not a genetic disorder
and the mutations that we see in cancer
are all downstream effects of the
disturbed energy metabolism. So the
field essentially has been focusing on
incorrect targets. The target is clearly
enhancing energy metabolism through
transitional uh utilization of
fermentable and non-fermentable fuels.
And this will then uh slow the growth
rate of the tumor and increase overall
longevity and and um overall general
health. And and we we and others have
worked the bioenergetic principles out
for this. And this is why we're seeing
people that are these so-called terminal
cancer patients. At what point are you
terminal for crying out loud? our our
colleague our uh English guy Bob Pablo
Kelly was a glyobblasto and he was given
six months or nine months to live
without standard of care and with
standard of care he would have lived 12
months. So he chose nothing. He did
metabolic therapy and now he's out 10
years survival and he still has the
brain tumor. It's not like it went away.
It just went into an indolent state and
he has it debulked every two or three
years, but he's still alive and and he's
terminal, right? At some point, we're
all terminal if you live long enough. I
mean, the the idea here is that these
predictions about how long you're going
to live are predicted based on you being
poisoned and irradiated or treating some
sort with treating some sort of toxic
therapy that doesn't work. But if you
completely change the strategy by which
you're managing the disease, some of
these predictions are far off. They've
made terrible errors in in missing the
target of six or eight months and now
you're out six or eight years. What the
hell happened with that? So, uh um but
I'm not saying that can happen to
everybody, but it's happening enough to
know that there's something going on
here. And that something going on is the
relationship of your body to the
metabolic state of the cells in your
body. And that's what we're beginning to
see. And we're applying bioenergetic
constants to these things.
Can you explain the pressure pulse
theory that you've published? Can you
just explain it in words?
>> Press, not pressure.
>> Press.
>> Press. Okay. This came from the concepts
of paleobiology.
So these guys that do paleobiology.
They study extinctions on the earth.
Don't forget our planet is 4 and a half
billion years when it first appeared to
arise in the solar system. And it was a
hostile environment for a billion years
or more. Um okay. So uh but then we had
these tremendous explosions of life on
the planet. Um and then for whatever
reason volcanoes, earthquakes and uh all
this kind of stuff. It was mass of
extinctions of species. And this was and
it it was always correlated with two
things. There was a chronic stress on
the environment that would eliminate
large numbers of the weak but not the
strong. And then what happened that
there would be some catastrophic pulse
that would then eliminate the strong
ones as well to causing a complete
extermination of life forms. And the
paleobiologists
instituted this concept for uh ex
massive extinctions in terms of a press
pulse. So I simply adopted that whole
concept for how we kill tumor cells. We
we we press glucose down using diets uh
and exercise and then we pulse and
target the glutamine because glutamine
cannot be pressed. It's too valuable of
an amino acid for many systems that
require glutamine like the immune system
in the gut. So you have to be strategic
when you target glutamine. You cannot
just press glutamine
indiscriminately or irresponsibly. So
this then comes back to the concepts of
paleobiology to exterminate mass
extinction of the threat to your body
which is the cancer cell. You must be
strategic in pressing what you can press
because glucose is a non-essential
metabolite and then pulsing the very the
very fuel that is absolutely essential
for the growth of the tumor but
essential for other uh organ systems and
cells. But the other organ systems and
cells because they have a they can
switch to ketone bodies allows them to
survive while you're pulsing the
glutamine. That's an absolute essential
requirement for the tumor cell.
Everything makes complete sense based on
the laws of biochemistry and and and
nature. So once you understand those
laws in evolutionary biology, which is
how all this stuff started in the first
place, then you can strategically go
after and destroy the cancer cells. But
you you've got to know how to do this.
And you have to be trained to understand
what I just said. And then you'd be
surprised at the outcome, how successful
you become. and you and you uh start uh
seriously questioning all these
predictions that people are making based
on flawed understanding of the
situation.
>> So basically what what you're saying the
press pulse is to target the glucose and
we do that through diet like a ketogenic
diet is going to be the best.
>> Well any diet that will lower blood
sugar levels. Okay. And this was also
discovered with the work of epilepsy.
This is how we manage epilepsy in kids
with seizures. It's clearly related to
the the availability of glucose in the
body. Ketogenic diets are a very
effective way to maintain low levels of
glucose while allowing the brain to
function. So, so again, we just adapted
the ketone uh the epilepsy field that I
worked in for many years. And we've
learned how to do that for managing
seizures. Now, now we just learn to do
it for managing cancer. And a cancer
responds very very effectively to these
same same kinds of strategies. but that
we don't target the glutamine for
managing seizures but we have to target
the glutamine for managing cancer
because they need that nitrogen from the
glutamine to make do new DNA and RNA and
proteins which are the building blocks
for new cells. So clearly we have to
take away the fuels that are used for
building blocks while at the same time
shutting down their ability to make
energy and without energy nothing
nothing can grow. So the ketones allow
the normal cells to continue to make
energy, a fuel that the tumor cell
cannot use. And then we target the two
fuels that the tumor cell uses for
making energy and building blocks and we
shut the whole system down gradually.
Whether we kill somebody or or simply
manage the disease we don't know. In
some cases it seems to go away. In other
cases it never goes away but it never
gets really angry or it stays in some
sort of an indolent state which is
better than what it what it would have
been. So either way, most patients
benefit in one way or the other.
>> And so to really target glutamine
though, like the only way without drugs
that we can't get is really fasting with
mild exercise, right?
>> Yeah. I I that certainly does it. And
that might be explaining why some people
who who never take uh glutamine
targeting drugs are able to eliminate
their cancers by uh diet and exercise.
Uh, I I'm talking water only fasting,
you know, this is and I'm not I'm
talking like weeks of water only fasting
and intermittent fasting and this kind
of thing. Um, and yes, I've seen some
incredible uh responses to this. The the
pro the problem is it would happen, I
think, a lot faster if we were to target
the glutamine in the right way. So it's
just yes you can you can achieve success
without specifically using glutamine
targeting drugs but I think this but I
think the the management would work
faster and better if we were able to use
glutamine targeting drugs together with
the diet the other the other parts of
the metabolic therapy.
>> So a lot of cancer patients like myself
included I never had heard of any of
your work or seen of any of your work
until it was already too late. I was
down to 120 pounds unable to work. So I
didn't So fasting and exercise wasn't
really an option when you've wasted away
to almost nothing. So something I seen a
bunch of doctors talk about is you can
while in a prolonged fast have high
animal fats
um broth and butter basically. So all
animal fats. If you're having pure
animal fats, it doesn't interrupt your
fast. But would that have would that
interrupt your fast or
>> Yes. I I think I've seen uh folks and
don't forget that my the colleagues that
I work with um are always uh keen to
those those in cancer pe people with
cancer that are on the low end of the
weight uh and the B BMI is like below 20
or something. You have to be very
careful with these guys. Um but again
what you just said uh seems to not jack
up uh the glucose ketone index. So
again, uh you can get uh superior or
excellent nutrition with minimal
vegetables and some uh meats that will
allow you to um maintain a low GKI
putting pressure on the cancer cells
because they're hard they're very hard
for them to grow when when they're under
a low GKI value. So um because they need
those fermentable fuels uh to grow and
that's what cancer is, disregulated cell
growth driven by a fermentation
metabolism. So, as long as you can
restrict those fermentable fuels uh to
those cancer cells, they they're going
to they can't grow fast. There's just no
way for them to get energy. It's a
minimal. Now, it doesn't mean you cure
the it just means that you m you keep
that condition in an indolent kind of
estate. You live with it. It's like
having some, you know, some problem. But
you and the cancer seem to live together
um rather than but every now and then we
see uh a much greater uh removal of the
tumor. Um and I'm not saying it works
for everybody, but it works for enough
people to say there's something based
what's going on here. It looks like it
could be a tremendous way to keep people
alive with a higher quality of life. And
that doesn't necessarily mean that you
have to completely exclude using uh
cancer drugs. uh that are part of the
so-called standard of care. The the
issue of course is you don't have to use
as much of this and much lower
concentrations. So thereby mitigating a
lot of the adverse effects of some of
these uh some of these drugs. So again
we have all right now today we have all
of the necessary uh u procedures and
drugs to pro provide uh long-term
management of cancer. um we don't need
to do any more other than understand
better how to use the tools we already
have. So, and that's where we have a a
great failing is that we're not clear we
don't have a clear understanding of how
to use the all of the available tools
and procedures that we already have. So,
so once we better understand the nature
of the metabolic problem of cancer,
we're going to be able to use radiation
and chemo, imunotherapy and all these
different kinds of things that we have
available, but use them in the right way
in the right context rather than uh not
using them in the right way uh thereby
not exploiting their full pota power and
potential for managing cancer. And
that's that's where an understanding of
what the nature of cancer is as a
metabolic disease allows us to have a
better appreciation of how to use the
tools we already have in the right
concentrations, dosage, timing, and
scheduling. And I it's it's a very
solvable problem, this cancer thing. Um,
it's just that we're not doing it the
right way and we don't understand the
principles of of of of the nature of the
problem. And that one of the goals that
we have is writing papers over and over
again uh describing this and then and
then having people in the clinic as exe
exact examples of what can happen when
you do it the right way. That's why
Maggie and Brad Jones are producing the
the documentary movie on all of this. uh
where they're um they're they're having
a registry of folks that are that are
long-term survivor. All terminal cancer
patients should have been dead years ago
and they're all had done metabolic
therapy and their faces are there and
you can interview them and talk to them
and what did you do and you find out
that they all didn't do the same thing.
They all did like different things. Uh
all of which are putting pressure on the
metab metabolism of the tumor cells in
one way or another. So, so this is
another uh um resource that people can
go to and say, I want to talk to those
guys. What did they do? What did this
colon cancer guy do? What did this brain
cancer guy do? What what did this breast
cancer person do? What did the bladder
cancer guy do? You know, uh all of the
different types of cancers. What did the
blood cancer guy do? You know, the
Merkel cell cancer guy, what did the all
of them are doing some form of metabolic
therapy? Well, what did they do? And
then you put it together and they they
all did different things, but they all
targeted the glucose and glutamine in
one way or the other.
>> And what's that documentary called?
>> It's called The Cancer Revolution. And
it's put out by Maggie and Brad Jones.
And they the trailers are out there on
the web. Uh there I think they're
working on the last part of of the full
I think it's a four-part documentary
series. Oh, this is coming. Um and what
Brad and Maggie Jones are doing is they
use metabolic therapy. Maggie was
terminal. Another one, one of these
people, you got six months to live. They
always say, "You got six months to
live." Uh, well, she's out six years
now. And um, she told her husband, a
professional documentary movie producer,
do a documentary. Why the hell am I
alive six years when they told me I had
six months to live? Because they adopted
metabolic therapy. So, what is metabolic
therapy? And now they're starting to
find that all these people with various
kinds of cancers are living far longer
than what would have been predicted
because they so they said let's let's
let's collect all this information. So
what they did is they went back and
looked at the work of Otto Warberg who
all this essentially comes back to and
uh we just grabbed a but Han from Otto
Warberg and ran with it to the next
level and we realized why he made some
mistakes and why others have had
difficulty interpreting what he did and
we're trying to clear up the mess and
then uh and then show the the the clear
path to uh more successful cancer
management uh to improve quality of life
and overall survival.
Um and we never state that we're working
on a for cancer. We're we're we're
working on novel ways to manage cancer.
Whether it leads to complete resolution
or not, we don't know. So, and I think
the field has all come falling into this
trap of oh uh where's the cure for
cancer? Uh they've kind of like made
this [clears throat] term the cure.
Forget about it. Uh if you can manage it
long and you can live far longer in a
higher quality of life, be grateful for
that. uh uh uh it's not like you have a
common cold, you take a pill and and you
cure your common cold. It it it it can
be mana put it this way cancer is a
manageable disease if done if if the
tools to manage it are done correctly.
So uh and we can improve on that and and
um whe whether we get a cure or not we
don't know but we can certainly keep
people alive longer with a higher
quality of life and I consider that
success far greater than what we have
today.
>> So if you had cancer and you were unable
to get Dawn and you had nothing, what
regiment would you follow do you think?
What would you go on? What regimen?
>> I would get I would get Dawn for sure.
There's no way I would not get it. I h I
know where to get it and how to get it
because I'm a scientist, so I have
access to this. So, um uh
>> but if you couldn't get it, what would
you
>> If I couldn't get done, uh I I would
have to do um well, I would have to do
the long-term water only fasts. I I
would have to take the parasite drugs
and bendazol, fen bendazol. They do work
on glucose and glutamine targeting. Uh I
would get my ketones as high as I could.
I would keep maintain a low GKI. I would
explore whatever kind of a diet uh food
that I would take whatever to keep my
GKI low. Do what Moratis did from um the
Mediterranean guy there. I mean, we know
this is capable. Uh yeah, it would it
would be easier if I had done, but if I
didn't have done and and at least I
would know that uh if I didn't survive
from all I did, at least I know I tried
and I worked with something that I
understood and I and at least I would be
dying from the disease uh rather than
from the treatment of the disease. Uh
right now 50% of the cancer patients are
dying from the treatments not from
cancer. So, so I I would know that I
would be dying. I gave it my best shot.
I I did whatever I could do with the
knowledge that I have. At least I knew
that I died from cancer and not from
some poisonous thing they gave me to
manage it where I would be dead from
that. Um, and I I I I wouldn't subject
my body to any level of toxicity uh in
any kind of a therapy that I that I
would take. Everything would be based on
my understanding of the bioenergetics of
the system. And yes, I would be trial
and error a lot of things and always m
maintaining my GKI. And the bottom line
is how do you feel? Uh you don't have to
ask. I mean, you talk to a cancer
patient, you say, "Oh, I feel pretty
good." You know, and you know, the f the
funny thing about it is is um when many
many people are diagnosed for the first
time with cancer, they often say, "Well,
I didn't really know I had it, and I I
didn't feel too bad. I I knew I had some
problem here, but I didn't know it was
going to it was going to kill me. Well,
then when they start poisoning and
irradiate you, and then next thing you
know, you are killed, who knows whether
the cancer is killing you or the
treatments are killing you. The the the
idea here is that you want to know
you're going to die from the disease
because you you you knew how to manage
it the best you could. So yeah, I mean I
would be and then of course I would talk
to my colleagues that I have trained
in understanding this and they're on the
front lines treating patient after
patient after patient and they would
have a a more direct uh experience in
knowing how different people respond to
different parts of the of the press
pulse uh therapy and I would certainly
be in consultation uh with them. So u
and I would hang on fight it as long as
I could. uh knowing uh what I know about
the nature of the disease and if I lost
the battle eventually at least I'm
battling it. This whole term that oh I'm
battling no you're not battling your
cancer. You're sitting there like some
uh uh bystander being poisoned and
radiated by a system that really has no
understanding of what the biology of the
disease they're treating. At least I'm
I'm fighting it. I am I would be
battling the disease known with my
knowledge of biochemistry and
physiology. I'm battling my disease and
I'm ultimately responsible for my
existence on the planet and if I'm doing
it the right way, I might exist a little
longer. So, so um yeah, there's a lot of
ways to to uh battle this disease, but
the term battling it when you're not
doing anything. Metabolic therapy puts
the burden of of success on the
shoulders of the patient themselves. I
have all these people emailing me and
they say, "Oh, you know, I'm doing all
what you say, but I can't get my GKI
down." And I said, 'What are you eating?
Well, I I I like bread every now and
then. Well, for crying out loud, man,
you can't get your GK diet down if
you're eating bread. Oh, I didn't know
that. Well, this is called scientific
literacy. And if you're scientifically
illiterate, you might as well go pick
out your grape stone now. So,
this this is what you have to know. Uh,
you know, it's just these kinds of
things. Don't you can't blame anybody uh
about anything. It's on your shoulders.
You got to know the right thing to do.
You're in control of your destiny. And
metabolic therapy allows you to wield
the power of your own body's ability to
to to resist these things and adapt. And
cancer cells cannot adapt. They're
locked into this fermentation
metabolism. So they're very all these
things cancer cells are adaptable. No,
they're not adaptable. They're full of
gene mutations and they can't res they
can't get energy except through
fermentation. Therefore, you know how to
trap and kill them. And you can do it
when you when you have this knowledge.
50% of people die from treatment. Now,
is that just radiation and chemo or does
that include immune therapy? Like, what
kind of long-term damage is immune
therapy doing to people? Because it
seems to be far less toxic still than
chemo and radiation.
>> Well, there's a a term you should know.
It's called hyper progressive disease
associated with immune therapy. Okay?
And there's a lot of papers written on
this. It's a dark side. The dark side of
what you how did when you take
imunotherapy did the physicians tell you
about hyper progressive disease?
>> Why not? Because they should for
Christ's sake. This is a well doumented
phenomenon in the scientific literature.
Uh imunotherapies can be very effective
in about 20% of the people.
Imunotherapies are mostly no different
than doing whatever in about 60% of the
people. But in 20% of the people the
imunotherapy will cause the accel rapid
acceleration of the growth of the tumor
and killing you faster than you would
have uh had. It's called it's a
well-known phenomena called
hyperprogressive disease. Every
oncologist should know that and should
share that information with you. There's
dozens of papers written in the
scientific literature for all these
different kinds of cancers called hyper
progressive disease associated with
imunotherapies. Some of it can be uh
what we call tumorly lis syndrome. Okay,
this is where you would have a lot of
cancer cells in your body and you would
take an imunotherapy and it would be so
effective you'd kill all the tumor cells
simultaneously releasing all of the
toxins into your bloodstream blowing out
your kidneys and liver and then killing
you through a hyper progressive uh
disorder like that. And then there's
other ways that you can take a tumor and
you can see wow look at the tumor
shrink. Now what happens is in
combination with the tumor shrinking all
of a sudden you see a lot of with the
blood work you'll start to see an
explosion of inflammatory cytoine kinds
like C reactive protein feritin and some
of these other things start your blood
work becomes out of whack and then
several months later this damn tumor
comes exploding back at you. So so uh
and these are all documented events in
the literature. So, so, um, all of these
all of these should be discussed with
the patient. Um, and and that's what I'm
saying. A lot of times they're not
looking at all the different markers
that are going to predict what's going
to happen. And what we know about is we
have to be constantly looking at GK.
It's a it's you have to watch all the
biomarkers and how they're responding to
the treatments that you take. I mean, if
you take a treatment that massively
increases inflammatory cytoines in your
bloodstream, this is not good. If you
take a treatment that ex accelerates
blood sugar and and glutamine levels in
your in your system, this is not good.
Okay. When you that the reason why we
have made nose advances in managing
brain cancer, glyobblasto in 100 years
because the standard of care frees up
massive amounts of glucose and glutamine
in the person's brain, killing the
person because they freed up all this.
This is all when you understand biology
and biochemistry of your adversary. You
would never do some of the crazy stuff
that we're doing to these cancer
patients. And you ask the oncologist
what I'm telling you, and as you said,
they never heard of any of this stuff.
They don't read the scientific
literature like I do, and they don't do
the experiments in the lab like I do.
And they don't look at the they're told
by a system, and the system itself is
based on a flawed theory. So, you put it
all together, and in the United States,
we have 1,700 people a day dying from
cancer, which is 70 an hour. 70 people
in the United States are dying each hour
from cancer because of a system that's
lacks knowledge on the underlying
underpinnings of what the nature of the
disease is. It's not this is all I mean
what I'm saying is based on on the the
evidence in the literature that
apparently nobody seems to read or
understand.
>> It's malpractice, isn't it?
>> Well, I I I I don't want to be the one
to say that.
>> I'll say it. It sounds like malpractice
to me. Uh well there's a certain there's
a certain level of malpractice that you
have to recognize. Um if the oncologists
don't and never heard of this and were
never trained in their training to hear
this then it's a lack of knowledge. Um
it it's uh uh negligence a lack of
knowledge um uh w which is not
excusable. But on the other hand like in
the brain cancer field uh where I have
showed many papers and discussed how the
radiation of the brain tumor frees up
massive amounts of glucose and glutamine
and how steroids make the the blood
sugar go up and you now know why you
don't survive where uh 90 98% of people
are dead uh within five years. um and
you know what I've said and you've
looked at the data and then you continue
to do that knowing that that's going to
kill your patient, that might be
considered uh malpractice because it's
one thing to not know about it, which is
like negligence. There's another thing
to know what you're doing and you
continue to do it. That's immoral. And
um uh uh
>> the largest dose of uh steroids
dexamethasone that I received was I
can't remember it was 36 milligrams or
46 milligrams because I had an allergic
reaction to chemo. So I bet that would
have been one heck of a glucose spike
that day.
>> Oh yeah. Everybody should look at their
blood sugar. Um and this is and you know
it's feeding the beast. So uh and that
causes anxiety. And then when you take
get back on the right metabolic path and
you see the blood sugar going down and
the GKI going down that reduces anxiety.
So so there's so many ways you can
manage the beast. Um uh if you know what
you're doing and how to do it. The the
tragedy is that your caregiver who
should be working with you a a as a
coach uh has no clue or and never heard
of what I'm talking about never was
trained to understand this. So this is
the great tragedy. it it's that we have
the knowledge, we have the procedures,
but the the field does not yet know or
understand it. And and that's I don't
know what we do to to change that. and
and it's happening in Canada and it's
happening in the United States and it's
happening in England and Germany and
France and Poland and China and Korea
and Japan and in Brazil and in Chile and
in Australia and in New Zealand and in
India and in Saudi Arabia and you can
just go around the world to all the
different countries and all the same
stuff is happening there.
>> [laughter]
>> Holy, we've come up to an hour. Do you
have a few more minutes or is that
>> I I have to I'm actually scheduled uh to
meet with somebody very shortly. So
>> Okay. Well, that'll be it for today
then. So, I'll uh end the recording now.
Thanks everybody for joining and I hope
this was informative.